Task 1 - Menu & Content

* In the previous milestone, students were asked to collect ideas on content, images,
colors, and layout from competitors. In this task, students should evaluate what items
they believe could be used to inspire their designs for their own website. Design can
be difficult for young developers and any examples from other websites can help drive
ideas and approaches to make their site better. Please don't blatantly copy another's
work, but let it inspire you to be your best. Please write down the top 5 designs from
competitors you like the best, and consider how you will use them to help drive your design.
* Students will create a menu system of 5-9 different pages that will be later created
in milestone 6. (ie. Home, About, Contact, etc...)
* In order to design a page, students will need content to fill out the document to
give an idea of what the site will look like if completed. Although the content is
not all required at this point, students must obtain images for the home page and may
use lorem ipsumLinks to an external site. for the content. Imagery should either be
obtained from the client or a stock photoLinks to an external site. may be used.

Task 2 - Setup & Design

* Students will use Figma for EducationLinks to an external site. to create a new
custom document 1200px wide and 1600px tall. Students may use other applications if
desired (ie. Adobe XD, Photoshop, Illustrator, SketchUp).
* Students should select between a full or boxedLinks to an external site. layout.
The main content (not background images) should be contained in a wrapper of 992px.
* Students that feel unfamiliar with the program should watch the tutorialsLinks to
an external site. found in their help section.
* If students struggle with design and have no experience, it is recommended they look
at a good design for inspirationLinks to an external site. (not copy).
* Students should apply the principles of design (contrast, alignment, repetition,
proximity) to their mockups. 

Task 3 - Export & Share (5 pts)

* Students will use the Figma sharing toolLinks to an external site. to copy and share
a link to the classLinks to an external site.. Students must use an education account
to gain access to full sharing capabilities. To test, students should open the link in
a new browser or an incognito window (a browser without being signed into Figma), and
see if it opens.
* At the bottom of this assignment is a discussion board for students to post a reply
for the entire class to view the design. The following items will be filled out and
posted to the discussion board for grading:
- Website Name:
- Summary of Website:
- Link to Design: (ie. https://www.figma.com/file/VbVA0mP9TbECDkw5cglGev/SE1400---Test-MockupLinks to an external site.)

Task 4 - Comment & Assist Others (5 pts)

Students will comment back on 5 OR MORE on other posts with constructive criticism and
suggestions to make it better. No credit will be given for, "it looks good", types of
comments. Any comments posted after the due date will not be accepted for points.

Task 5 - Improve the Design

There is some time before the homepage will be implemented and coded out into a functional page. Students will take the suggestions from peers to improve the design before moving to code. Students in the class will be asked to present the changes made on lab days, while online students should post improved designs to this discussion board.